.\" @(#)xfade.man 1.3 89/08/02; Copyright (c) 1989 - Sun Microsystems
.TH xfade 1 "25 July 1989"
.SH NAME
xfade \- xfade fade between two strings

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfade
[
.BI \-display " connection"
]
[
.BI \-string " string1 string2"
]
[
.BI \-sleep " sleeptime"
]
[
.BI \-pause " pausetime"
]
[
.BI \-fg " foreground1 foreground2"
]
[
.BI \-bg " background"
]
[
.BI \-p " font_pattern"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xfade
uses colormap double buffering to fade between two strings.  It requires
a dynamic visual to run.  As the window is resized, its does its best
to find a font in \fIfont_pattern\fR to best fit the window.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.BI \-display " connection"
Connect to X server display,
.IR connection.
.TP 5
.BI \-string " string1 string2"
Use
.IR string1
and
.IR string2
as the strings to fade between.
.TP 5
.BI \-sleep " sleeptime"
Microseconds to sleep between changes in the colormap.  The default
is 100000.  Two small a sleeptime can overwhelm the server.
.TP 5
.BI \-pause " pasuetime"
Microseconds to pause at the end of a cycle.  The default
is 400000.
.TP 5
.BI \-fg " foreground1 foreground2"
The colors of the two strings.
.TP 5
.BI \-bg " background"
The color of the window.
.TP 5
.BI \-pattern " font_pattern"
Use
.IR font_pattern
as the font family.  The default is
.IR *times-medium-r*.
.SH SEE ALSO
    X(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
 Copyright (c) 1988 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
 David Lemke (lemke@wirehead.sun.com)

 Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 
