.TH xrsh 1
\" $Id: xrsh.man,v 1.2 89/10/13 14:06:54 hakanson Rel $
.SH NAME
.I xrsh - 
frontend to rsh, for starting remote X clients.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrsh host cmd [arg ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xrsh
is a shell-script frontend for the \fIrsh\fP (remote shell) facility,
designed to be used for starting X client processes on remote hosts.
Note that the usual \fIrsh\fP and \fIxhost\fP access controls apply.
.PP
In particular,
.I xrsh
propagates the \fBDISPLAY\fP variable
from the invoker's environment to the remote session,
in order that the remote client will know with which X server
to communicate.
It also arranges the standard input, output, and error streams
so that the session is not associated with a tty,
thus allowing the local \fIrsh\fP and remote \fIrshd\fP processes
to exit immediately.
.PP
Output from the remote session is directed to a file called
.B .xrsh.out
in the user's home directory on the remote host.
This file is overwritten for each such session on the remote host,
and is only kept around to capture diagnostics.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
None (yet).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xhost(1), rsh(1)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 10
.B DISPLAY
if set, is passed on to the remote session's environment.
If \fBDISPLAY\fP is not set,
\fIxrsh\fP will complain about it and exit.
If \fBDISPLAY\fP is set to "\fBunix:n.n\fP" or "\fB:n.n\fP"
then \fBDISPLAY\fP is exported as "\fBhostname:n.n\fP".
All of this is done to avoid inadvertent
display to "\fBunix:n.n\fP" on the remote machine.
.TP 10
.B HOSTNAME
if set,
is used when appropriate to rewrite the \fBDISPLAY\fP variable
before passing it on to the remote host.
If \fBHOSTNAME\fP is not set,
the \fIhostname\fP command is run to supply the appropriate value.
.br
.SH BUGS
.I Xrsh
does not understand (or pass on) \fIrsh\fP options.
.PP
Care must be taken with quoting shell arguments for the remote session,
since some layers of quoting are already present,
and further I/O redirection will prove to be unproductive.
.SH AUTHOR
Based on a version by suggested by Chris Torek, University of Maryland
(chris@mimsy.umd.edu).
.br
This implementation and manual page are by Marion Hakanson,
Oregon Graduate Center (hakanson@cse.ogc.edu).
