.TH BITIMP 1 LOCAL
.SH NAME
bitimp \- generic bitmap to imPress program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbitimp\fR
\%[options]
\%[Ifile]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIbitimp\fR converts a bitmap \fIfile\fR
to imPress format for printing on an IMAGEN printer.
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.BI \-a\0 mode
Sets \fIbitimp's\fR mode of operation to \fImode\fR,
which may be one of \fIgenimp\fR,
\fIisimp\fR, \fImacimp\fR, \fIsunimp\fR or \fIxwdimp\fR,
(default taken from the invocation line if possible,
otherwise the default is \fIxwdimp\fR.)
.TP
.BI \-b\0 string
Sets the banner string for the job.
.TP
.BI \-c\0 n
Prints \fIn\fR copies.
Since this is done via the Imagen DCL,
this switch is meaningful even if the output is not to be immediately printed.
.TP
.B \-d
Turns on debugging.
.TP
.BI \-f\0 string
Identifies \fIstring\fR as the value of the variable \fBfile\fR in the DCL.
.TP
.BI \-gs\0 num
For \fIgenimp\fR mode,
indicates that \fInum\fR bitmaps are in the input stream.
(default 8)
.TP
.BI \-gh\0 num
For \fIgenimp\fR mode,
indicates that each bitmap is \fInum\fR bits wide.
(default 512)
.TP
.BI \-gv\0 num
For \fIgenimp\fR mode,
indicates that each bitmap is \fInum\fR bits tall.
(default 512)
.TP
.BI \-g\0 num
For \fIgenimp\fR mode,
indicates that each bitmap is \fInum\fR bits wide and tall.
(default 512)
.TP
.B \-h
Prevents a banner page for being printed for this job.
.TP
.BI \-i\0 file
Directs \fIbitimp\fR to send its output to the named file.
This disables the \fI\-p\fR and \fI\-s\fR switches.
.TP
.B \-l
Print in landscape mode.
.TP
.B \-p
Directs \fIbitimp\fR to spool its output for printing.
This disables the \fI\-s\fR switch.
(default OFF unless stdout is a tty)
.TP
.B \-r
Directs \fIbitimp\fR to remove its input file if everything goes well.
.TP
.B \-s
Directs \fIbitimp\fR to send its output to the standard output.
This diables the \fI\-i\fR and \fI\-p\fR switches.
(default ON unless stdout is a tty)
.TP
.B \-t
Toggles page reversal for the job.
If the job is to be sent to an Imagen 12/300,
pagereversal actually does the wrong thing.
.TP
.B \-v
Turns on verbose output to the diagnostic output.
.TP
.BI \-D\0 string
Identifies \fIstring\fR to be appended to the DCL for the job.
.TP
.BI \-H\0 host
Identifies the \fIhost\fR of the user spooling the job.
.TP
.BI \-J\0 string
Identifies \fIstring\fR as the name of this job.
.TP
.BI \-M\0 num
Sets the bitmap magnification to two raised to the \fInum\fR.
\fInum\fR may be 0, 1, or 2.
(default 1)
.TP
.BI \-P\0 printer
Sets the printer for this job.
.TP
.BI \-R\0 resolution
Sets the resolution of the printer for this job.
(default 300)
.TP
.BI \-U\0 user
Identifies the \fIuser\fR spooling the job.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
iprint(1), catimp(1), dviimp(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Obvious.
.SH BUGS
For \fIxwdimp\fR,
only XY pixmaps of a single plane are handled.

