.TH XMANDEL N " 07 March 1989" "X Version 11"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
xmandel \- window based interface to Mandelbrot sets and Julia sets
.SH SYNOPSIS
xmandel [-display display]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR Xmandel
is a user friendly interface for generating Mandelbrot sets and Julia sets.
It initially comes up with with six command buttons,
which are described below, for controlling the execution.
A Mandelbrot set is drawn in the window of the initial form
when the \fImandel\fP button is selected.
A separate window is created for drawing the Julia sets.
.SH THEORY
Let z0 be a number in the complex plane (x + yi). 
Choose a complex constant C.  
Calculate z1 = z0 ** 2 + C.
Repeat this recursively, so that z2 = z1 ** 2 + C,
z3 = z2 ** 2 + C and so on.
z[n] will either tend to infinity or zero, depending
on its initial value and the constant C.
Specifically if the absolute value of z[n], 
expressed as |z| = sqrt(x**2 + y**2) is greater than 2,
then the recursive formula will diverge.
.PP
So, to calculate a Julia set, take each point near (0,0i),
and use the formula z = z**2 + C recursively.
The Julia set is the set of points for which
z = z**2 + C would iterate indefinitely for the constant C.
Pixels, which represent numbers in the complex plane,
are set to the number of iterations before |z| exceeds 2.
This then becomes an index into the hardware colormap.
Each color then represents the number of iterations before
divergence is detected.
.PP
To calculate a Mandelbrot set, again take each point near (0,0i),
use the same formula z = z**2 + C recursively.
This time let C be the initial value of the point itself (C = z0).
Rather than having the same C for every point in the complex plane
as in Julia set calculations,
C is different for each point in the plane.
Again let the pixel value be the number of iterations
before |z| exceeds 2.
.PP
On monochrome displays, the pixel value is set to 1
if the iteration count is 64, otherwise 0.
.PP
Mandelbrot sets and Julia sets are obviously closely
related as can be seen from the similarity of their
respective formulas.
If the constant C is chosen from the interior of the
Mandelbrot set, then the Julia set calculated from that
constant C will be connected, that is have no gaps or discontinuities.
If the constant C is chosen from outside the Mandelbrot set,
the Julia set will be disconnected, more like grains of dust (Fatou clouds).
If the constant C is chosen from the border of the Mandelbrot set, 
then the Julia set will be more convoluted.
Given this relationship between points in the Mandelbrot set
and the Julia set generated, 
Xmandel provides user selection of the constant C
by mouse selection in the Mandelbrot window.
.SH BUTTONS
To control execution of the calculations, various buttons
are provided.
The buttons are:
.TP
.B mandel \-
Calculates a Mandelbrot set from (-2.0, -1.5) to (1.0, 1.5)
and display it in the window provided.
.TP
.B julia \-
Calculates a Julia set.
The user is required to select a point inside the Mandelbrot window using 
the left mouse button as the constant C for the Julia set calculation.
It will open a new window if needed.
The Julia set is centered around (0,0),
going from (-1.5, -1.5) to (1.5, 1.5).
Julia set points can be selected from zoomed in Mandelbrot windows as well.
Beware of selecting points outside the Mandelbrot window.
.TP
.B zoom \-
In order to zoom in on a given area in the Mandelbrot set,
a zoom button is provided.
The area to be zoomed in on is selected with the left mouse button.
Left button down begins the selection,
dragging with left button down draws a rubber banded box to show the zoom area,
and left button up begins the calculation.
You can zoom in on a zoomed in area until you reach
the limits of the precision of your hardware.
Selecting a zoom area that crosses a window border doesn't work.
.TP
.B unzoom \-
Return to previous zoom.  
Note that you can zoom all the way out by selecting the \fImandel\fP button.
.TP
.B clear \-
Clears the Mandelbrot window.
.TP
.B quit \-
This causes \fIxmandel\fP to exit.
.SH BUGS
Xmandel uses hard coded values for button colors,
assuming a 256 color colormap.
.PP
Xmandel does not handle exposure events.
.PP
Selecting a zoom area that crosses a window border doesn't work.
.PP
Performance is slow on workstations,
especially workstations without floating point hardware.
.SH AUTHOR
John L. Freeman
.br
jlf@cray.com
