.TH POLYSTONES 1 "June 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
polystones -- tests the performance of polygon fills
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "polystones"
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIPolystones\fP uses XFillPolygon.  \fIPolystones\fP uses either an
input file of vertices or defaults to vertices on the circumference
of a circle.
.sk 5
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-nverts \fInum\fP
This option specifies the number of verticies for the default
polygon.  The default value is 4.
.TP 8
.B \-tilt \fInum\fP
This option specifies the number of degrees to rotate the default polygon.
The default value is 0.
.TP 8
.B \-grow \fInum\fP
This option specifies growing polygons.  The default value is 0.
\fI What does this mean ????? \fB
.TP 8 
.B \-convex
This option specifies the use of Convex mode for XFillPolygon().  The
default value is Complex.
.TP 8
.B \-nonconvex
This option specifies the use of Nonconvex mode for XFillPolygon().  The
default value is Complex.
.TP 8
.B \-complex
This option specifies the use of Complex mode for XFillPolygon().  The
default value is Complex.
.TP 8
.B \-evenodd
This option specifies the use of the EvenOdd fill rule.  The default is
EvenOdd.
.TP 8
.B \-winding
This option specifies the use of the Winding fill rule.  The default is
EvenOdd.
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfilename\fP
The name of the file that contains the list of points to be used
as vertices.
.TP 8
.B \-tile
This option specifies the use of tile fill for chords and pieslices.
The bitmap used for the tile is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-stip
This option specifies the use of stipple fill for chords and pie slices.
The bitmap used for the tile is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-opaqstip
This option specifies the use of opaque stipple file for chords and pie slices.
The bitmap used for the tile is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-opaqstipbg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the background color to use for the
opaque stipple fill.
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option displays the help menu.
.TP 8
.B \-h
This option displays the help menu.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
International Business Machines--1989
