.TH XTEX 1
.SH NAME
xtex \- view DVI files on your X-11 display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xtex
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xtex
allows you to preview a DVI file produced by
.I TeX82, LaTeX,
etc., under the X-11 windowing system.
.I Xtex
relies heavily on the application defaults file,
which is loaded into the X resource database on invocation.
Normally, this file lives in /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Xtex.ad
.I Xtex 
will not work properly if this file is not installed.
Must function bindings in
.I xtex
can be altered by editing the application defaults file or
by overriding those options in your private resource file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-mag
Set the default mag for windows. Default is 1000.
Can be set by ``mag'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-smallMag
Set the default mag for the ``small'' magnification. Default is 1000.
Can be set by ``smallMag'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-largeMag
Set the default mag for the ``large'' button. Default is 1440.
Can be set by ``largeMag'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-topOffset
alias for \-voffset
.TP
.B \-voffset
Set the vertical margin to display, in inches.
This should correspond to the value of
.B voffset
in your document. The default is one inch.
Specifying smaller values, e.g. 0.5, avoids displaying
whitespace that takes up display real estate.
.TP
.B \-leftOffset
alias for \-hoffset.
.TP
.B \-hoffset
Specifies the horizontial (left) margin, corresponding to
.B hoffset
in your document.
Again, this can be used to save display real estate.
.TP
.B \-paperWidth
Specifies the width of ``paper'' to render, in inches.
Default is 8.5 inches.
Can be specified using ``paperWidth'' in your resource database.
.TP
.B \-paperHeight
Specifies the height of ``paper'' to render, in inches.
Default is 11 inches.
Can be specified using ``paperWidth'' in your resource database.
.TP
.B \-print
Set the default printing program for files.
Default is ``lpr -d''
Can be set by ``print'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-useButtons
Display function buttons in the page display, giving your
document more room. You must use the keypress accelerators within
that page (see Accelerators).
Default is `True.'
Can be set by ``useButtons'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-autoSize
Automatically resize the window.
Default is ``True''
Can be set by ``autoSize'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-pageMaxWd
The maximum allowed page width (in pixels) when auto-sizing
your window. The default is about 95% of your display width.
Can be set by ``maxPageWd'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-pageMaxHt
The maximum allowed page height (in pixels) when auto-sizing.
Default is about 95% of your display height.
Can be set by ``maxPageHt'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-dpiHoriz
Set the default horizontial resolution of the fonts, in dots per inch.
This value is used to actually determine what fonts are loaded.
Default is 85 dpi.
Can be set by ``dpiHoriz'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-dpiVert
Set the vertical font resolution; 
some displays have a non-unity aspect ratio.
E.g. on a Sun-3 monitor, the horizontial resolution is
about 85 dpi, but the vertical resolution (on mine)
is about 83.5dpi.
This is only important if you're really running at
screen resolution and are trying to layout documents to a
specific format.
Can be set by ``dpiVert'' in resource database.
.TP
.B \-tfmPath
Specifies the default path used to locate the TFM files that describe
the TeX fonts.
.I Xtex
uses X11 fonts to actually
render the bitmaps, but must also know the size of
fonts when laying out a page.
The TEXFONTS environment variable will override this option.
.SH FONTS
.I Xtex
can display your document at a variety of sizes, but you must
have X-11 fonts corresponding to the fonts in your .dvi file.
For example, if your file calls for font ``cmr10'' scaled 1000,
and you're rendering it on your display
at 300dpi with the magnification level set to 500,
.I xtex
will look for the font ``cmr10.150''.
The suffix is compute by
.I
(dpi * scaled * mag ) / ( 1000 * 1000 ).
You can generate these fonts using 
.I mftobdf.
For example, executing ``mftobdf -scaled 1000 -mag 500 cmr10''
would produce ``cmr10.300'' (the default resolution is 300).
The font ``cmr10.300pk''
would be shrunk by 50% to produce ``cmr10.150.bdf'',
the output file. You could also specify this at using
``mftobdf cmr10.300pk.''
.I mftobdf
can only magnify things by 500, 333, 250, 200, ..., 1000/integer.
You could also generate this font by using
.I Metafont
to build a font ``cmr10.150'' and then saying ``mftobdf -scaled 500 cmr10.''
In practice, most installations use screen (or near screen) resolution
fonts. For example, to produce the ``cmr10.85'' (cmr10 font, normal
scaling, 85dpi resolution), you execute:
``mftobdf -dpi 85 cmr10.85pk.''
.PP
Ideally, this will have already been set up at your site, and you'll
never have to worry about it.
.SH DOCUMENT LEVEL FUNCTIONS
.PP
There are many buttons at the top level display.
.TP
.B Quit
quits Xtex entirely.
.TP
.B Open
opens the file in the file name box.
.TP
.B Copy
copies the file and then opens this copy;
this lets you process a new version of the file while looking at the old one.
.TP
.B Cd
changes the current directory.
.TP
.B Close
closes the current file if there is one.
.PP
These functions (and the button names) are all controlled by the
application defaults file, and may differ at your site.
Normally, an accellerator is installed to invoke ``copy''
and ``Page'' (see below) when you press
.B RETURN
in the file name box.
.PP
Once you open a file, you can select other functions.
.TP
.B Page
puts up a new page display.
.TP
.B Print all
uses the print program specified by
.B -print
to print your document.
.TP
.B Print Marked
prints only marked pages.
.TP
.B Print Unmarked
prints unmarked pages.
.PP
The marked pages are displayed under the dialog box in the mark menu.
You can mark pages in the mark menu using the mouse.
Button1 marks a page,
Button2 clears all marks and Button3 inverts all marks.
These button bindings are set by the application defaults file,
and may differ at your installation.
Currently, the only thing you can do with marked pages is print them.
.I xtex
invokes 
.I dviselect
to copy the pages into another file, which is then printed.
.PP
When you display a page of output,
by selecting the ``Page'' button,
the first page of your document is displayed.
You can press ``Page'' again to display multiple
copies if you desire.
.PP
Actions within a page are specified either
by using buttons or key presses.
Because the buttons take valuable real estate on your display,
you may wish to use the
.B \-useButtons
options, or specify
``Xtex.useButtons: False''
in your resource database.
.SH PAGE BUTTONS
You can move around (forewards and backwards),
mark the current page for printing
or duplicate the page (e.g., to view it at a larger size).
You can also create tied pages;
in these, pressing foreward or backward in the master window
(the one in which you poked `tied') causes the tied page
to go foreward or backward. Movement in the tied page
doesn't affect the master.
Tied pages can also have tied pages.
.PP
The ``large'' and ``small'' buttons allow you to select two
common sizes for magnification. You can also use the mag
button for other general sizes.
.PP
Options to the right of the text widget require extra input;
that's what the text widget is for.
You specify a page number in the text widget
and then either hit ``Goto'' to go to that page number.
You specify a general mag by entering a mag number (e.g., 333, 500 or 1000)
and hit ``Mag'' to set the magnification.
.PP
If you change the mag,
the page will resize itself if you specified
.B \-autoSize
or set the ``Xtex.autoSize'' resource to true.
.SH PAGE ACCELERATORS
.PP
There are accelerators for these functions.
.TP
.B Q, X, Control-d
exit xtex entirely.
.TP
.B q,x
exit this particular page.
.TP
.B 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9
set the current <prefix>.
These numbers are cummulative, i.e. entering ``23'' gives the
number ``23,'' not simply ``3''.
.TP
.B ESCAPE
clear the current <prefix>.
.TP
.B f, n, Control-n, RETURN
go forward <prefix> pages, with a default of one.
.TP
.B b, p, Control-h, BackSpace, Delete
go backward <prefix> pages, with a default of one.
.ip
.B g
goto the logical page specified by <prefix>.
.TP
.B Control-t
prints the current page.
.TP
.B l
shifts to ``large magnification.''
.TP
.B s
shifts to ``small magnification.''
.TP
.B m
shifts to arbitrary magnification specified by the <prefix>.
E.g. typing ``1095m'' will set the magnification to 1095.
.TP
.B m
marks the current page.
.TP
.B u
unmarks the current page.
.TP
.B t
toggles the mark for the current page.
.TP
.B F12, r
reopens the document. If you opened the document using ``Open,''
the document is opened again, while if you used ``Copy,'' a new copy
is made.
This is used when making iterative changes to your document.
If the current logical page number exists in the newly
opened document, you'll continue to see that page. If it doesn't
exist, you'll see the first page.
Reopening a document clears all page marks.
.TP
.B d
duplicates the current page (putting up another page window).
.TP
.B t
duplicates the current page using a tied window.
All forward and backward actions in the original page are mimiced
in the tied page, allowing you to walk through a document
with two (or more) pages displayed in lockstep.
.TP
.B Space, Arrow Keys
If your document is too large to fit on the display, and must use
the scroll bar, Space-Down will display the bottom of the document
and Space-Up will return to displaying the upper half.
You can also the arrow keys to move up, down, left and right.
.PP
.SH HINTS
Set your backing store in your resources file, e.g. 
.B Xtex*backingStore: whenMapped
and scolling will be MUCH faster.
.SH BUGS
Although
.I xtex
understands most
.I tpic
graphical commands, it is unable to display shading,
because Dirk was too lazy to finish it.
All other graphics commands are supported, however.
.SH AUTHOR
Dirk Grunwald, at the University of Colorado wrote
.I TeXx2
based using a DVI-library written by Chris Torek at UMD.
Tim Morgan, at the University of Calif, Irvine,
wrote the enhanced
.I tpic
support, and Dirk beat on it heavily.
