.\" 
.\"  Copyright 1989 Purdue Research Foundation
.\" 
.\"  Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software 
.\"  and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, 
.\"  provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that 
.\"  both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
.\"  supporting documentation, and that the name of Purdue not be used in 
.\"  advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software 
.\"  without specific, written prior permission.  Purdue makes no 
.\"  representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  
.\"  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"  PURDUE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING 
.\"  ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\"  PURDUE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR 
.\"  ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, 
.\"  WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, 
.\"  ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS 
.\"  SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\"  Author:  George Kraft IV (gk4@staff.cc.purdue.edu)
.\"           Purdue University Computing Center
.\"           Mathematical Sciences Building
.\"           West Lafayette, IN 47907
.\" 
.TH STARTX 1L PUCC
.SH NAME
startx \- robustly start an X windows session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B startx 
[
.B -d | -w
] [
.B -x
.I startup
| [
.B -r
.I resources
] [
.B -m
.I window_manager
]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
There are many ways to initiate an X windows session, and \fIstartx\fR
is designed to ease the burden on the user.  First, \fIstartx\fR sets the user's
\fBDISPLAY\fR environment variable to identify the X server to the X clients.
Next a distinction is made between the user's use of a workstation or an X
display station, then the appropriate invocation is made to get the X windows
session started.  This invocation entails starting the X server & X clients for
a workstation, or starting the X clients for an X display station.
.LP
\fIStartx\fR redirects X server and X client error messages to the file 
specified by the user's \fBXERRORS\fR environment variable.  This is very
useful for debugging, and gives X a clean startup & shutdown appearance on 
workstations.
.LP
You should note that you can use one or both of the \fB\-m\fR and \fB\-r\fR
options, or the \fB\-x\fR option, but you cannot use the \fB\-x\fR option
in conjunction with the \fB\-m\fR and \fB\-r\fR options.  In the \fIstartup\fR
script, it is the responsibility of the user to start a window manager, load 
X resources, & spawn X clients.
.LP
If no \fIstartup\fR script file name is given at the command line with
the \fB\-x\fR option,
then \fIstartx\fR looks for a file named in the user's \fBXINITRC\fR 
environment variable.  If \fBXINITRC\fR is not set, then \fIstartx\fR
looks in the user's home directory for a file 
called \fI.Xinit, .xinit, .Xinitrc, .xinitrc,\fR 
or \fI.xsession,\fR respectively, to begin the X client programs.
.LP
If no \fIstartup\fR file is found, \fIstartx\fR runs the
\fIwindow_manager\fR indicated at the command line with the \fB\-m\fR option, 
or invokes the window manager \fItwm\fR(1L), \fIawm\fR(1L), or \fIuwm\fR(1L) 
after finding the associated configuration files \fI .twmrc, .awmrc,\fR 
or \fI .uwmrc\fR respectively.  If a window manager configuration 
file is not found in the user's home directory, \fIstartx\fR initiates 
an \fIxterm\fR(1L) client and the \fItwm\fR(1L) window manager.
.LP
When no \fIstartup\fR file is found, \fIstartx\fR also instructs the 
load of the \fIresources\fR file given at the command line with the \fB\-r\fR
option, or a file from the user's home directory 
called \fI.Xdefaults, .xdefaults, .Xresources,\fR 
or \fI.xresources,\fR respectively.  If an X \fIresources\fR files if not 
found, then the X windows session will not be personalized.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-d\fR" 20
Start X clients for an X display station.  
.IP "\fB-w\fR" 20
Start the X server and X clients for an X window session on a 
workstation.  
.IP "\fB-x\fR \fIstartup\fR" 20
Start an X windows session using the \fIstartup\fR script.
.IP "\fB-r\fR \fIresources\fR" 20
Load the \fIresources\fR file when no \fIstartup\fR script is found. 
.IP "\fB-m\fR \fIwindow_manager\fR" 20
Start the \fIwindow_manager\fR when no \fIstartup\fR scripts is found. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "startx" 20
Start an X windows session on a workstation, or for an X display station.
.IP "startx -w" 20
Force start an X windows session on a workstation.
.IP "startx; kill -9 $$" 20
Useful for starting an X Windows session for an X display station, and
logging off the user's \fItelnet\fR(1C) session.
.IP "startx -x \fI.xinitrc\fR" 20
Start an X windows session using the \fI.xinitrc\fR script.
.IP "startx -w \fItwm\fR" 20
Start an X windows session using the \fItwm\fR window manager; however, if
a \fIstartup\fR script file is found, then the \fB\-w\fR option is ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLE STARTUP SCRIPT"
.LP
In the \fIstartup\fR script, it is the responsibility of the user to start
a window manager, load X resources, & spawn X clients.  Below is an 
example \fI.xsession\fR script.
.sp
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/csh
(twm &)
xrdb -load .xdefaults
(xclock -g 75x75+0+0 &)
(xbiff  -g 75x75+101-0 &)
if ("/dev/console" == "`tty`") then
        xterm -g 80x24+0+0 +ut -C -T `hostname`
else
        xterm -g 80x24+0+0 +ut -T `hostname`
endif
.fi
.RE
.LP
For a workstation, the last line in the \fIstartup\fR script 
should be a foreground \fIxterm\fR(1L) with the \fB-C\fR option for console 
messages.  
.LP
For an X display station, the last line in the \fIstartup\fR script 
should be a foreground \fIxterm\fR(1L) without the \fB-C\fR option.  
Also, some X display stations will not terminate the \fItelnet\fR(1C)
session upon closing; therefore, one should \fIexec\fR(1) \fIstartx\fR
to over write the current \fItelnet\fR(1C) session and begin the X windows 
session.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IP "\fBDISPLAY\fR" 20
The name of the X server to which X clients should connect to.
.IP "\fBXERRORS\fR" 20
Where \fIstartx\fR is to redirect error messages.  By default, \fIstartx\fR 
redirects errors to the file \fI.xerrors\fR in user's home directory.
.IP "\fBXINITRC\fR" 20
An \fIstartup\fR file containing shell commands to start a window manager,
load X resources, & spawn X clients.
.SH TERMINOLOGY
.IP "workstation" 20
A multi-purpose host computer, normally with a bitmap display and a mouse.
The X server & X clients run on the workstation.
.IP "window manager" 20
A program which allows you to move, resize, and circulate windows on your 
display.
.IP "X display station" 20
Is a machine dedicated as an X server.  Only the X server runs on the
X display station.
.IP "X client" 20
A program that performs a task such as terminal emulation, clock,
or window management.
.IP "X resources" 20
Are the user preferences of your environment such as screen size &
placement, border & background color, and window title & scroll bars.
etc.
.IP "X server" 20
Is a combination of the graphics display, keyboard, mouse, hardware, and X 
server software which accepts input from these devices and provides display
services for X clients.
.SH BUGS
.LP
For a workstation if a \fIstartup\fR exists & no \fIresources\fR are loaded
by the user, then \fIxinit\fR(1L) within \fIstartx\fR will try to load 
an \fI.Xdefaults\fR file.
.LP
The use of a workstation is assumed when the X session is being initiated
from \fI/dev/console\fR.  If this is not the case, then user must use
the \fB-d\fR, or \fB-w\fR option.  See \fItty\fR(1) for more details.
.LP
The multitude of names for the same files is confusing; however, \fIstartx\fR
includes these historical names for robustness.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright 1989 Purdue Research Foundation
.br
George Kraft IV, Purdue University Computing Center
.br
gk4@staff.cc.purdue.edu
.SH SEE ALSO
awm(1U), tty(1), twm(1L), uwm(1L), X(1L), xdm(1U), xinit(1L), xrdb(1L), xterm(1L)
.br
O'Reilly & Associates, \fBX Window System User's Guide,\fR 1988.
.SH FILES
.IP $HOME/.xerrors 20
See \fBXERRORS\fR above.
.IP $HOME/.Xinit 20
See \fBXINITRC\fR above.
.IP $HOME/.xinit 20
See \fBXINITRC\fR above.
.IP $HOME/.Xinitrc 20
See \fBXINITRC\fR above.
.IP $HOME/.xinitrc 20
See \fBXINITRC\fR above.
.IP $HOME/.xsession 20
See \fBXINITRC\fR above.
.IP $HOME/.Xdefaults 20
X \fIresources\fR file loaded to set user preferences for X clients.
.IP $HOME/.xdefaults 20
X \fIresources\fR file loaded to set user preferences for X clients.
.IP $HOME/.Xresources 20
X \fIresources\fR file loaded to set user preferences for X clients.
.IP $HOME/.xresources 20
X \fIresources\fR file loaded to set user preferences for X clients.
.IP $HOME/.twmrc 20
.IR twm (1L)
configuration file.
.IP $HOME/.awmrc 20
.IR awm (1L)
configuration file.
.IP $HOME/.uwmrc 20
.IR uwm (1L)
configuration file.
.IP /dev/console 20
The \fItty\fR(4) of a workstation's initial \fIlogin\fR(1) shell.
