.\" @(#)dbxtool.1 1.25 89/07/31 SMI;
.TH DBXTOOL 1 "1 September 89"
.SH NAME
dbxtool \- OpenWindows interface for the dbx source-level debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbxtool
[
.B \-d
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-k
] [
.B \-kbd
] [
.B \-I
.I directory
] [
.I objectfile
[
.I corefile
] ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
.B dbxtool 
is a SunView facility that is available with both
the SunView software installation option and the OpenWindows
user environment.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "dbxtool command"  ""  "\fLdbxtool\fP \(em debugger"
.IX "debug tools"  "dbxtool command"  ""  "\fLdbxtool\fP \(em debugger"
.IX "programming tools"  "dbxtool command"  ""  "\fLdbxtool\fP \(em debugger"
.LP
.BR dbxtool ,
a source-level debugger for C, Pascal and \s-1FORTRAN\s0 77
programs, is a standard SunView tool that runs within the
OpenWindows
environment.
It accepts the same commands as
.BR "dbx" ","
but provides a more convenient user interface.
.LP
You can use the mouse to set breakpoints, examine
the values of variables, control execution, peruse
source files, and so on.
.B dbxtool
has separate subwindows for viewing source code,
entering commands and other uses.
.LP
.I objectfile
is an object file produced by
.BR cc (1V),
any other Sun compiler, (or a combination of them) with the appropriate
flag
.RB ( \-g )
specified to produce symbol information in the object file.
.SB IMPORTANT:
every stage of the compilation process, including the linking phase, must
include the
.B \-g
option.
If no
.I objectfile
is specified, you can use the
.B debug
command to specify the program to be debugged.
The object file contains
a symbol table which includes the names of all the
source files translated by the compiler to create it.
These files are available for perusal while
using the debugger.
.LP
If a file named
.B core
exists in the current directory or a
.I corefile
is specified,
.B dbxtool
can be used to examine the
state of the program when it faulted.
.LP
Debugger commands in the file
.B .\|dbxinit
are executed
immediately after the symbolic information is read, if that
file exists in the current directory, or in the user's home
directory if
.B .\|dbxinit
does not exist in the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Produce debugging information for the pipeline from which it reads
.BR dbx (1)
output.
.TP
.B \-i
Force
.B dbxtool
to act as though standard input were a terminal.
.TP
.B \-k
Kernel debugging.
.TP
.B \-kbd
Debugs a program that sets the keyboard into up/down translation
mode.  This flag is necessary if you are debugging a program
that uses up/down encoding.
.TP
.BI \-I " directory"
Add
.I directory
to the list of directories that are searched when looking
for a source file.  Normally
.B dbxtool
looks for source files in the
current directory and then in the directory where
.I objectfile
is located.
The directory search path can also be set with the
.B use
command.
Multiple
.B \-I
options may be given.
.SH USAGE
.LP
Refer to
.BR dbx (1)
for a summary of
.B dbx
commands, or
.TX DEBUG
for more complete information on using
.BR dbxtool .
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B core
default core file
.TP
.B .\|dbxinit
local
.B dbx
initialization file
.TP
.B ~/.\|dbxinit
user's
.B dbx
initialization file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cc (1V),
.BR dbx (1)
.LP
.TX DEBUG
.br
.I  The OpenWindows User's Guide
.br
.ne 6
.SH BUGS
.LP
The bugs for
.BR dbx (1)
apply to
.B dbxtool
as well.
.LP
The interaction between scrolling in the
.I source
subwindow and
.BR dbx 's
regular expression search commands is wrong.
Scrolling should affect where the next search begins,
but it does not.

