.TH SM 1 
.SH NAME
sm \- a session manager for x
.SH SYNOPSIS
sm [-ignore] [-print] [-debug] [-display hostname:dpy] [normal Xaw options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sm
is a convenient way to save the state of your "desktop" and
restore it. 
.PP
The state is saved in a file called
.I sm/State
which is located in your home directory.
.I Sm
executes each of the commands in this file at startup time.
If you don't have 
.I sm/State
in your home directory,
.I sm
first tries to use the file
.I /usr/lib/X11/sm/DefaultState.
If that file doesn't exist then,
.I sm
executes "xterm -C".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-ignore
Ignore any existing sm/State file.
.TP
.B \-print
Just print out that current state.
.TP
.B \-debug
Turn on debugging.
.SH STARTING AND QUITING
.I sm
is normally started by
.I xinit
or
.I xdm after running
.I xrdb
and starting an ICCCM compliant window manager(such as X11R4's twm).
.PP
If
.I sm
was started by
.I xinit
or 
.I xdm,
quitting
.I sm
shutdowns the X Window System server.
.I sm
has a small window with a button that looks like a stop sign.
When you click
on the shutdown button a confirmation box pops up; if you click on the
``Save State'' button then
.I sm
will save the state of the system.
.SH OPTIONS
.I sm
takes all of the standard toolkit options.  In addition, you may
ignore the startup file with -ignore or you can write the current
configure to stdout using -print.
.SH "X DEFAULTS"
The available names and classes for the widgets used are:
.RS
.nf
.ta 4i
NAME			CLASS
print			Boolean
ignore			Boolean
stateFile		String
defaultState		String
shell			String
defaultcommand		String
geometryString		String
iconicString		String
geometryString		String
iconPixmap		Pixmap
geometry		Geometry
homeForm		Form
homeForm.quitButton	Form.CommandButton
confirmForm.confirmLabel	Form.Label
confirmForm.yesButton		Form.Label
confirmForm.noButton.label:	Form.label
confirmForm.checkBoxLabel.label: Form.label
.fi
.RE
.PP
These can be used to set fonts, colors, etc. tailored to the user's
needs.  As a color example:
.PP
.RS
.ta 4i
.nf
sm*quitButton.background:			mauve
sm*yesButton.background:			peach
sm*noButton.background:				plum
sm.geometry:					-1-100
sm*homeForm.font:				vbee-36
sm*confirmForm.font:				vbee-36
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/X11/sm/DefaultState
~/sm/State
.SH BUGS
.B Sm
doesn't  iconic windows or window gravity.
.SH AUTHOR
.ta 1.2i
Mike Wexler
.br
	mikew@fx.com


