.TH Xless 1 "1 June 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xless - File browsing program for the X Window System.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xless
[-options ...] filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xless pops up a window on the display specified, containing the file
specified on the command line.  This file may easily be viewed using
the scrollbar to the left of the window.
Xless takes also input from the standard input.
Extra function are available on the toolbox to the right of the window:
.br
.br
- Search a specified pattern;
.br
- Search the next occurance of the above specified pattern;
.br
- Open a session of the editor specified in the environment variable EDITOR,
on the current file;
.br
- Reload the current file;
.br
- Change file in the current window;
.br
- Open a new xless window on the specified file.
.br
.PP
For further information on using xless please read the online
help information.  The rest of this manual page will dicsuss
customization of xless to suit the needs of a particular user.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Xless is build upon the \fIXToolkit (Xtk)\fP and as such understands all
default command line options of the Xtk.
.PP
.SH "WIDGET AND RESOURCE NAMES"
In addition to the standard widget resources Xless has the following
application resources:
.br
.PP
.B standardFont
.br
	The default font to be used if any of the specified fonts are available.
.PP
.B textFont
.br
        The fonts to use for the text.
.br
.PP
.B labelFont
.br
	The fonts to use for labels in dialog boxes.
.br
.PP
.B buttonFont
.br
	The fonts to use for labels on buttons.
.br
.PP
.B standardCur
.br
        The cursors to use in the main button window 
        with the Quit and Help commands.
.br
.PP
.B dialogCur
.br
        The cursors to use in the toolbox and dialog box windows. 
.br
.PP
.TP 8 
.B helpFile
Use this rather than the system default helpfile.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), X(8C), more(1), less(1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
The probably are some.
.br
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright 1989 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
Carlo Lisa, MIT Project Athena, from xmore written by
Chris Peterson, MIT Project Athena.
