.TH KTERM 1 "19 May 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
kterm \- terminal emulator for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kterm
[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIkterm\fP program is a Kanji terminal emulator for the X Window System.
It provides DEC VT102 and Tektronix 4014 
compatible terminals for programs that can't
use the window system directly.
It comes from \fIxterm\fP in the core programs of the distribution of the
X Window System.
The most of the functions are the same as original \fIxterm\fP's, however,
it has capabilities of displaying Kanji strings and handling of the status line,
if compiled with -DKANJI or -DSTATUSLINE compile time options.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
The \fIkterm\fP terminal emulator 
accepts all of the standard \fIxterm\fP command line options along with the 
additional options listed below (if the option begins with a
.RB ` + '
instead of a
.RB ` \- ',
the option is restored to its default value):
.TP 8
.BI \-fk " kanji-font"
This option specifies a Kanji font to be used when displaying Kanji text.  
This font must be the same height and width as the ascii font.
The default is ``a14''.
.TP 8
.BI \-fkb " kanji-bold-font"
This option specifies a Kanji bold font to be used when displaying bold text.  
This font must be the same height and width as the kanji font.
If no Kanji bold font is specified, it will be used as the
normal font and the bold font will be produced by overstriking this font.
The default is not specified.
.TP 8
.BI \-fr " kana-font"
This option specifies a Kana font, which may be used as GR in 8bit environment.
This font is used if ``ESC ( I'' is appeared in JIS Kanji mode, SS2 (0x8e)
is appeared in EUC Kanji mode, and not used so frequntly in normal Japanese
text.
The default is ``kana14''.
.TP 8
.BI \-frb " kana-bold-font"
This option specifies a Kana bold font.
.TP 8
.BI \-ka
This option indicates that \fIkterm\fP should connect to the X server
with KEEPALIVE socket option. It is usefull when the server is a X terminal
that is frequently powered off. This option is accepted only if \fIkterm\fP
has been compiled with -DKEEPALIVE compile option.
.TP 8
.BI \+ka
This option indicates that \fIkterm\fP should connect to the X server
without KEEPALIVE socket option.
.TP 8
.BI \-km " kanji-mode"
This option specifies the Kanji code from the pty output.
If kanji-mode is ``jis'', then it assumes the input/output is coded by JIS code,
i.e., each Kanji string is proceeded by ``ESC $ B'' or ``ESC $ @'' and each
ascii string is proceeded by ``ESC ( B'' or ``ESC ( J''.
This mode does not require 8 bit passing tty module because 7 bit encoding
with appropriate escape sequences is used.
If kanji-mode is ``euc'', then it assumes the input/output is coded by EUC.
If kanji-mode is ``sjis'', then it assumes the input/output is coded by
Shift-JIS code (which is the same as MicroSoft Kanji code).
The default mode is ``jis''.
.TP 8
.B \-sn
By default, the status line is in reverse-video (relative to the rest of the
window).
This option causes the status line to be in normal video (the status line
is still enclosed in a box).
.TP 8
.B \-st
This option causes the status line to be displayed on startup.
.SH "X DEFAULTS"
The program understands all of the core xterm resource names and
classes as well as:
.TP 8
.B "kanjiFont (\fPclass\fB KanjiFont)"
Specifies the name of the kanji font.  The default is ``a14.''
.TP 8
.B "kanjiboldFont (\fPclass\fB KanjiFont)"
Specifies the name of the bold font.  The default is not specified.
.TP 8
.B "kanaFont (\fPclass\fB KanaFont)"
Specifies the name of the kana font.  The default is ``kana14.''
.TP 8
.B "kanaboldFont (\fPclass\fB KanaFont)"
Specifies the name of the bold font.  The default is not specified.
.TP 8
.B "kanjiMode (\fPclass\fB KanjiMode)"
Specifies the Kanji code of pty output. The default is ``jis.''
.TP 8
.B "keepAlive (\fPclass\fB KeepAlive)"
Specifies whether or not \fIkterm\fP should connection to the X server
with KEEPALIVE socket option. The default is ``false.''
.TP 8
.B "statusLine (\fPclass\fB StatusLine)"
Causes the status line to be displayed on startup. The default is ``false.''
.TP 8
.B "statusNormal (\fPclass\fB StatusNormal)"
Specifies whether or not the status line should be in normal video.
The default is ``false.''
.SH EMULATIONS
The VT102 emulation is fairly complete, but does not support the blinking
character attribute nor the double-wide and double-size character sets.
.IR Termcap (5)
entries that work with
.I xterm
include ``kterm'', ``xterm'', ``vt102'', ``vt100'' and ``ansi'', and
.I xterm
automatically searches the termcap file in this order for these entries and then
sets the ``TERM'' and the ``TERMCAP'' environment variables.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xterm(1), resize(1), X(1), pty(4), tty(4)
.br
.I ``Xterm Control Sequences''
.SH BUGS
\fIKterm\fP assumes that the width of Kanji characters is as twice as
that of ASCII characters. Of course variable-width fonts are not handled
like \fIxterm\fP. 
.PP
This version of
.I kterm
uses ``ESC $ B'' to designate the Kanji character set in tty output when JIS
mode is selected.
There is no way to specify ``ESC $ ( B'' instead.
.PP
Because of a historical reason in Japan, the sequence to designate
Swedish character set ``ESC ( H'' is treated as that of Japanese roman
character set.
.PP
There is no distinction between ASCII and Japnese roman character sets,
though the latter includes the ``Yen'' character, interrupted bar and
upper score.
.PP
Currently available \fIxterm\fP
nor previously released \fIkterm\fP can not paste a Kanji text from this
\fIkterm\fP. Because we are not allowed to store the cutted Kanji text
into the cut buffer or selection with STRING type, as defined in the ICCCM,
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988 and 1989, XXI working group in Japan Unix Society Japan.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Far too many people, including:
.sp
Katsuya Sano (Tokyo Inst. of Tech.),
Michael Irie (Sony Corp.),
Akira Kato (Tokyo Inst. of Tech.),
Michiharu Ariza (Software Research Associates),
Makoto Ishisone (Software Research Associates),
Hiroto Kagotani (Tokyo Inst. of Tech.)
.sp
Send bugs to kagotani@cs.titech.ac.jp, please.
