.TH XJPTERM 1 "14 Sep 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xjpterm \- terminal emulator for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xjpterm
[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxjpterm\fP program is a Kanji terminal emulator for the X Window System.
It provides DEC VT102 and Tektronix 4014 
compatible terminals for programs that can't
use the window system directly.
It comes from \fIkterm\fP in the user contributed programs of the distribution
of the X Window System.
The most of the functions are the same as original \fIkterm\fP's, however,
it has capabilities of Kanji strings input ,using Wnn/Jserver, xwnmo 
and XJp-library.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fIxjpterm\fP terminal emulator 
accepts all of the standard \fIkterm\fP command line options along with the 
additional options listed below (if the option begins with a
.RB ` + '
instead of a
.RB ` \- ',
the option is restored to its default value):
.TP 8
.BI \-jo
This option indicates that \fIxjpterm\fP should connect to xwnmo.
The default is ``true.''
.TP 8
.BI \-jm "input-mode"
This option specifies conversion-window position.
If input-mode is ``default'', then xjpterm use default conversion-window.
If input-mode is ``under'', then conversion-window position is under of
xjpterm window.
If input-mode is ``inline'', then conversion-window position is cusor position
of xjpterm.
The default is ``default''
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kterm(1), xterm(1), resize(1), X(1), pty(4), tty(4)
.br
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, OMORN TATEISI ELECTRONICS CO,
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Far too many people, including:
Seiji Kuwari	OMRON TATEISI ELECTRONICS CO.
		kuwa@frf.omron.junet
		uunet!nff.ncl.omron.co.jp!kuwa
.sp
