.TH VECTSTONES 1 "June 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
vectstones -- tests the performance of lines and segments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "vectstones"
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIVectstones\fP tests the performance of the XDrawLines()
and XDrawSegments.() This test is different from the linestones and.
segstones testcase because ????

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-nvects \fInum\fP
This option specifies the number of vectors for a window.
The default value is 8190.
.TP 8
.B \-maxvects
This option specifies the use of the maximum number of vectors if
they fit in the window.  This value is 8190jeanne[!]: .
.TP 8
.B \-single
This option specifies the use of XDrawLine instead of XDrawSegments.
XDrawSegments is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-width \fInum\fP
This option specifies the width of the segment/line.  If "0" is specified,
the server will use a machine dependent algorithm for drawing the lines.
"0" is the default value.
.TP 8
.B \-length \fInum\fP
This option specifies the length of each line segment.
The default value is 40.
.TP 8
.B \-degrees \fInum\fP
This option specifies the angle of the vector.
The default value is 45.
.TP 8
.B \-vspace \fInum\fP
This option specifies the vertical space between vectors.
The default value is 5.
.TP 8
.B \-hspace \fInum\fP
This option specifies the horizontal space between vectors.
The default value is 10.
.TP 8
.B \-dash \fI(1) (2) (3) .... (N)\fP
This option specifies the use of patterned lines to draw the arcs.
The (1) option specifies the number of parameters.  The (2) option is
the number of pixels drawn on.  The (3) option is the number of pixels
drawn off.
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option displays the help menu.
.TP 8
.B \-h
This option displays the help menu.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
International Business Machines--1989
