.TH QUANTIZIM 1 "February 3,  1989"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
quantizim \- quantize a 24 bit/pixel image to 256 colors or less.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quantizim
[-in 
.I file
] [-out
.I file
] [-colors
.I n] [-nodes
.I n
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Quantizim
is a program for quantizing 24 bit/pixel images down to 8 bits or less.
It does a fairly good job creating a pixmap and colormap from a three channel RG&B data.
At the heart of this program is the
.I alcols
code written at the USC Information Sciences Institute.
It uses a tree sorting algorithm for selecting the best 256 (or less) unique colors from over 16 million.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -in \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the 24 bit/pixel file on the command line.  The default is to read input from standard in.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -out \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the 8 bit/pixel file on the command line.
The default is to write output to standard out.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -colors \fInum\fP
This allows one to specify the maximum number of colors to quantize down to.
The program may return less than the maximum.
The default is 256 colors.x.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -nodes \fInum\fP
The ratio of pixels per node to begin the tree sort with.
The default is 50.
A smaller ratio (more nodes) gives more even shading and uses more memory.
Less nodes causes more banding but generally less quantization error.
.PP
.I Note:
All of the command line options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique spelling.
.br
ex: %  quantizim -in colord24.xim -out color.xim -co 192 -no 10

.SH "SEE ALSO"
xim(n)
smoothim(n)
.SH BUGS
- This program takes a lot of memory.
Large images around 640x480 may not work on all machines.
.br
- The optimum ratio of nodes to image size is not clear.
.br
- I wish I knew better how this works.
.SH COPYRIGHTS
Copyright (c) 1988, University of Southern California
.br
Copyright (c) 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.SH AUTHORS
Paul Raveling (vaxa.isi.edu) - alcols.c
.PP
Philip R. Thompson (phils@athena.mit.edu) - quantizim.c
.br
Computer Resource Laboratory,  
Dept. of Architecture and Planning,  
.br
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  
Cambridge, MA  02139

