.TH SMOOTHIM 1 "February 3,  1989"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
smoothim \- smooth out and reduce noise in a 24 bit/pixel image.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smoothim
[-in 
.I file
] [-out
.I file
] [-thresh
.I level]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Smoothim
is a program for reducing the noise often found in scanned or digitized  images.
We use it here primarily for reducing noise from digitized video images.
At the heart of this program is the
.I scancols
algorithm written at the USC Information Sciences Institute.
It does a weighted averaging of pixels in a 5x5 cell around each target pixel, but only for those pixels within some given RGB range of the target.
A decrease in overall image sharpness may result.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -in \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the 24 bit/pixel file on the command line.
The default is to read input from standard in.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -out \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the output file on the command line.
The default is to write output to standard out.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -thresh \fIdist\fP
dist is the RGB distance threshold, defaulted to 50.
Neighboring pixels are averaged only if their RGB displacement
from the target pixel is less than dist.
Higher distances have a more pronounced effect, but may increase blurring of the image.
.PP
.I Note:
All of the command line options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique spelling.
.br
ex: %  smoothin -in colord24.xim -out smooth.xim -th=25

.SH "SEE ALSO"
xim(1), quantizim(1)

.SH BUGS
This program takes a lot of memory.
.SH COPYRIGHTS
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Copyright 1988, University of Southern California
.SH AUTHORS
Paul Raveling (vaxa.isi.edu) - scancols.c
.PP
Philip R. Thompson (phils@athena.mit.edu) - smoothim.c
.br
Computer Resource Laboratory,  
Dept. of Architecture and Planning,  
.br
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  
Cambridge, MA  02139

