.TH XIMTOPS 1 "February 3,  1989"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
ximtops \-  convert an xim image file to postscript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ximtops
[-in 
.I file
] [-out
.I file
] [-height
.I inches
] [-enhance=[1-9]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ximtops
is a program that translates "xim" files to postscript for printing.
The program will convert both 8 and 24 bit color images.
Compressed images with .Z suffix maybe read in directly.
Edge enhancement is also possible, though not recommended for most images.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -in \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the input 
file on the command line.
The default is to take input from standard in.
File may be in a compressed (*.Z) format.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -out \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the output file on the command line.
The default is to write output to standard out.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -height \fIinches\fP
User specified height in decimal inches.
.TP
.B -enhance or -enhance=1-9
Degrees of enhancement from 1 to 9 maybe specified.
9 is the default, and is faster than 1 to 8.
.PP
.I Note:
All of the command line options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique spelling.
.br
ex: %  ximtops -in color.xim.Z -en=5  -h 5.5 | lpr

.SH OTHER
The default scale is 1 pixel / point.
Default postscrit printer resolution is assumed to be the standard 72 points / inch.
Ximtops maintains at least a 1/4" border, and the image may not be scaled any larger than the page.
.PP
The image will reorient itself between landscape and portrait for a best fit on a page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xim(1), ximtorle(1), compress(1)
.SH BUGS
A showpage is always inserted in the end for two reasons:
.br
1) Including postscript and positioning images into documents with text formaters just doesn't work very well yet.
.br
2) Most images are quite large and slow to print.
.br
It is better to just paste them in.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Philip R. Thompson  (phils@athena.mit.edu)
.br
Computer Resource Laboratory,  
Dept. of Architecture and Planning,  
.br
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  
Cambridge, MA  02139

