.TH XIMTORLE 1 "February 3,  1989"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
ximtorle, rletoxim \- converting between "xim" and the Utah "rle" formats.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ximtorle
[-in 
.I ximfile
] [-out
.I rlefile
]
.br
.B rletoxim
[-in 
.I rlefile
] [-out
.I ximfile
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ximtorle
and
.I rletoxim
are programs that convert color "xim" files to and from the "rle" format of the Utah Raster Toolkit.
The Utah raster toolkit provides a large library of image processing tools for scaling, rotating, compositing, cropping, etc...
Both of these programs will convert 8 and 24/32 bit images automatically between these formats.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -in \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the input file on the command line.  The default is to read input from standard in.
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -out \fIfile\fP
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the output file on the command line.
The default is to write output to standard out.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
xim(1), xtoxim(1), (rle(5) available from cs.utah.edu)

.SH BUGS
The rle format contains a larger amount of information such background color and image clipping information than the xim format can hold.
Some of this information maybe lost when converting to xim.
.br
Some comment information may also be lost when converting between formats.
.br
One note, rle images have their origins in the bottom-left while xim have theirs in the top-left.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Philip R. Thompson  (phils@athena.mit.edu)
.br
Computer Resource Laboratory,  
Dept. of Architecture and Planning,  
.br
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  
Cambridge, MA  02139

