.TH XXIM n "February 3,  1989"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
xxim \- display 8 and 24 bit images on color and monochrome terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xxim
[-in 
.I file
] [-display
.I host
] [-mono] [-reverse] [-fs] [-mfs]
[-dither[=n]] [-enhance[=1-9]] [-cmap] [-debug]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xxim
is an X program that displays 8 and 24 bit deep color images on 8 bit color and monochrome terminals.
Xxim was previously called /fIxim/fP, but has been replaced by a more powerful toolkit version.
This is meant to be simpler and faster.
The program will do the necessary image processing to make the image fit the particular display's depth.
It is intended to make the viewing of images across on a variety of displays fast, easy and somewhat network "transparent".
.PP
Color dithering is used to display images using the
.I n
colors that the host will support.
Additionally, various options are available for displaying processing images into bitmaps.
This bitmap conversion is useful for making images suitable for printing on conventional printers via "xdpr".
An edge enhancement option is also available for improving spatial resolution.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.B -in \fIfile\fP
Specify what file to read.  Otherwise, default is stdin.
.TP
.B  -display \fIhost\fP
This option specifies the X server to connect and the screen on which to display the image.   See
.I X(1).
.TP
.B -mono
Convert an image to a monochrome (bitmap) image.  This is only valid
on color displays since this is automatic on displays with a depth less than 4 bits.
.TP
.B -dither, -dither=4 or =8 \fR(mono)\fP
Use a matrix dithering algorithm for digital halftoning to a bitmap image.
In mono mode a 4x4 or 8x8 (default) dithering matrix pattern maybe specified.
.TP
.B -dither or -dither=2-6 \fR(color)\fP
In color mode, a value maybe specified from 2 to 6 where
.I n**3
will be the number of colors needed in the colormap (ie. 6 = 216 colors).
Also force a fit to the displays depth.
.TP
.B -fs
Use the Floyd Steinberg algorithm for digital halftoning into monochrome images.  This is the default.
.TP
.B -mfs
Use a modified Floyd Steinberg algorithm for a threshold b/w conversion with greater contrast.
.TP
.B -enhance or -enhance=1-9
Edge enhance monochrome and 24 bit color images.
Degrees of enhancement from 1 to 9 maybe specified.
9 is the default, and is faster than 1 to 8.
.TP
.B -reverse
Draw the bitmap images with black and white inverted.
.TP
.B -cmap
Force the installation of the colormap.
This is faster since data maps directly to the colormap entries and no attempt is made to allocate the colormap in the current map. (color only)
.TP
.B -debug
List various debugging messages, colortable mappings, matrix values,
etc...
.PP
.I Note:
All of the command line options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique spelling.
.br
ex: %  xxim -in color.xim.Z -dit=4 -en -dis unix:0 -deb

.SH FEATURES
.LP
The program's interaction is loosely based on "xwud".
A right button press exits the program.
The middle button displays the coordinates of the mouse.
The left button advances to the next pixmap, if any.
A new colormap is created and installed only if there isn't enough room
in the default map.
"Leave" and "Enter" events seem to be sufficient to process for installing and uninstalling the colormap, although in some cases button presses events may trick the program.
The
.I uwm
window manager seems pretty good about not doing this.
.LP
When dithering color, Xxim will make a common colormap to fit the particular display's depth.
For 8 bit images this is an option that will disable installation of the image's own colormap and is useful for viewing several images at once.
.PP
Edge enhancement will only work on 24 bit images or on color to monochrome conversions.
It may not give desired results on some types of images, such as those with noise or those that have been previously dithered.
The default enhancement value of 9 allows for simplifications in the enhancement algorithm and shorter processing times.
.SH IMAGE FORMAT
Xxim reads image files are in my particular (yet another) format.
Images come either as pixmaps or color channel separations.
They may be compressed (for those Unix systems with the the "compress" and "zcat" commands) or runlength encoded to save space on other systems.
The header on each file is 1024 bytes in size and contains the necessary information about formats, sizes, authors, encoding flags, and the colormap of the pixmap(s).
Multiple pixmaps may follow the header.
Images are in characters (no shorts, ints or longs) so as to be easily portable across machines, and be somewhat humanly readable.
.PP
In the multi-channel format, the rgb (& alpha) buffers follow the header respectively, and the colormap in the header is not used.
Xxim will only use the first three (RG & B) channels of information,
If the number of channels is 0 or 1, 8 bit pixmaps are assumed and the colormap is used.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), rletoxim(1), ximtorle(1), xim(1), ximsetroot(1);
ximtops(1), ximtofbm(1), smoothim(1), quantizim(1)
.SH BUGS
.LP
Xxim conforms to the ICCCM protocol, but there are presently few window managers that do.
Uwm on the ibm/rt does not conform and has trouble installing colormaps properly.
.LP
Leaving and iconifing the window installs the default colormap, but not necessarily the map that was in use when the program was called.
.LP
24-bit displays aren't supported yet.
I don't have one, but if someone else should ...
.LP
Doesn't do any gamma or color display corrections.
.LP
Displays with less than less than 256 addressable colors don't automatically invoke dithering on images with a greater number of colors (ie. 256 color image on a 192 color display).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Philip R. Thompson  (phils@athena.mit.edu)
.br
Computer Resource Laboratory,  
Dept. of Architecture and Planning,  
Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  
Cambridge, MA  02139

