.TH XLIFEDEMO 6 "13 July 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xlifedemo - game of Life in a window with interaction
.SH SYNTAX
\fBxlifedemo\fP [\fI-toolkitoption\fP ...] [\fI-width\fP width] 
[\fI-height\fP height] [\fI-random number-of-random-patterns]
[\fI-patfile\fP patternfile]
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xlifedemo
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options, plus:
.TP 8
.IR -width " width"
Sets the width of the window
.TP 8
.IR -height " height"
sets the height of the window
.TP 8
.IR -random " number"
starts the game off with a suitable number of random patterns.
Zero means a program default.
.TP 8
.IR -patfile " patternfile"
reads in the list of patterns to use when generating the random
startup screen. The default is 
.I LIBDIR/xlife.pat.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xlifedemo
simulates the game of Life, described as follows:
.IP \-
if a "live" cell has one neighbour among the eight adjacent cells, it "dies".
(Isolation)
.IP \-
if a "live" cell has two neighbours, it continues to "live". (Survival)
.IP \-
if an empty cell has three neighbours, it comes "alive". (Reproduction)
.IP \-
if a "live" cell has four or more neighbours, it "dies" (Suffocation)
.PP
The following commands are available:
.IP "Set"
Bound to the left mouse button, it makes a cell come alive.
.IP "Start/Stop"
Bound to the middle mouse button, it starts and stops the simulation.
.IP "Kill"
Bound to the right mouse button, it clears a cell. This is only
available when the simulation is stopped.
.IP "Quit"
Bound to the 'q' key.
.IP "Redraw" 
Bound to the 'r' key.
.IP "Clear"
Bound to the 'c' key, it clears the screen and board.
.PP
When played as a game, the objective is to clear the board of all life
using the Set command only (Stopping, using the Kill key, and restarting is
not fair!). 
.PP
Life randomly initializes the board using a set of standard patterns that
cause reasonable carnage - they are well known growing, quasi-static
or moving patterns. The patterns are found in the patterns file
.I xlife.pat.
.SH X DEFAULTS
For
.I xlifedemo
the available class identifiers are:
.sp
.nf
XLife
.fi
.PP
For
.I xlifedemo,
the available name identifiers are:
.sp
.nf
xlifedemo
.fi
.sp
.LP
For
.I xlifedemo,
the available resources are:
.IP background
Specifies the background color to be displayed.
The default is white.
.IP foreground
Specifies the foreground color of the
.I xlifedemo
window.
The default is black.
.IP width
width of the window.
.IP height
height of the window.
.IP random
number of random cells to initialize with
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), xrdb(1)
.SH FILES
LIBDIR/xlife.pat
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Moraes, University of Toronto
.SH BUGS
Lacks numerous features -- this set of programs was written mostly as
a set of demos for doing continuous graphics in X windows. For a much
better Life simulator, see xlife.
