.\" $Header: SelFile.man,v 1.4 89/08/30 16:01:31 erik Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 Software Research Associates, Inc., Tokyo, Japan
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of Software Research Associates not be used
.\" in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
.\" without specific, written prior permission.  Software Research Associates
.\" makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any
.\" purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" SOFTWARE RESEARCH ASSOCIATES DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS,
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SOFTWARE RESEARCH ASSOCIATES BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Author: Erik M. van der Poel
.\"         Software Research Associates, Inc., Tokyo, Japan
.\"         erik@sra.co.jp
.\"
.TH XSRASELFILE 3X "April 24 1989" SRA
.SH NAME
\fIXsraSelFile\fR \- select a file
.sp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <stdio.h>
#include <X11/Intrinsic.h>
.PP
.ft B
.ta +\w'unsigned char  'u
ret = XsraSelFile(display, prompt, ok, cancel, init_path, show_entry, path_return)
int	ret;
Display	*display;
unsigned char	*prompt;
unsigned char	*ok;
unsigned char	*cancel;
char	*init_path;
int	(*show_entry)();
char	**path_return;
.fi
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I XsraSelFile
allows an X11 user to select a file by typing the path or by browsing in
directory listings and selecting entries with the mouse.
.sp
The space bar can be pressed to complete filenames, and tilde is used for home
directories.
All of the usual key bindings can be used in the text widget, except for Return
and Control-M, which are equivalent to pressing the OK button.
The path can be scrolled using the large horizontal scroll bar, or by moving
the insertion cursor in the text widget.
The directory entries can be scrolled using the vertical scroll bars, or by
holding a mouse button down and moving out of the listing.
The scrolling speed varies with the distance from the listing.
.sp
The directory entries are terminated with special characters that indicate the
kind of entry, similar to the
.I \-F
option of
.IR ls (1).
.sp
The programmer's interface is simple, providing an easy way for the application
to obtain a filename from the user.
.sp
.I XsraSelFile
does not allow X events to be generated on any other widgets in the application
by adding a grab for the dialog widget while it is active.
.sp
.SH ARGUMENTS
The
.B display
argument specifies the display on which to create the new application shell
dialog widget.
If it is specified as NULL, the default display is opened by initializing the X
toolkit.
.sp
The
.B prompt
argument specifies the prompt to print near the top of the new widget.
This should be a string containing no newlines.
If the prompt is specified as NULL, the string "Pathname:" is used.
.sp
The
.B ok
argument specifies the string to print in the OK button.
If it is specified as NULL, "OK" is used.
.sp
The
.B cancel
argument specifies the string to print in the Cancel button.
If it is specified as NULL, "Cancel" is used.
.sp
The initial path may be set using
.BR init_path .
If it is specified as NULL, the initial path will be the current directory.
.sp
The
.B show_entry
argument is a pointer to a function that is called to decide whether or not to
display a particular directory entry.
If this argument is specified as NULL, all entries will be displayed.
Otherwise, the function is called with arguments as follows.
.sp
.nf
.ft I
.ta +\w'struct stat  'u
int show_entry(real_name, shown_name_return, entry_stat)
char	*real_name;
char	**shown_name_return;
struct stat	*entry_stat;
.ft R
.fi
.sp
The
.I real_name
argument is the name of the entry, and the
.I entry_stat
argument is a pointer to the stat buffer of the entry.
The contents of the real_name and entry_stat arguments should not be altered.
The
.I shown_name_return
argument is to be filled in by the function if a name other than the real name
is to be shown.
The function should return true if the entry is to be displayed.
An example of a show_entry function can be found in
.IR callback.c .
.sp
When the return key or the OK button is pressed,
.I XsraSelFile
returns, putting the full path of the selected file in
.B path_return
unless it is NULL.
.I XtMalloc
is used to make a copy of the path.
The application writer is responsible for freeing the space.
.sp
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.B ret
return value is 0 if the user presses the return key or the OK button.
Otherwise, the user has pressed the Cancel button and a value of \-1 is
returned.
.sp
.SH COMPILATION
The XsraSelFile package can be linked with Athena (Xaw) and/or Hewlett-Packard
(Xw) widgets, by choosing the appropriate defines. See the Imakefile for
details.
.sp
.SH RESOURCES
The font to be used by
.I XsraSelFile
is specified by putting the following in a resource file:
.sp
.ft H
	selFile*font	:9x15
.ft R
.sp
(The default font is
.IR 9x15 .)
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
DISPLAY \- the default host and display to use.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xrdb(1), X Toolkit
.sp
.SH BUGS
.I XsraSelFile
must always be called with the same
.I display
argument.
.sp
When a directory is modified by a third party while the pointer is in that
directory's listing, the display will be updated and the pointer will be warped
away to prevent the user from selecting `the wrong file', which can be
considered dangerous if the application is about to delete whatever the user
selects.
.sp
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989 Software Research Associates, Inc., Tokyo, Japan
.sp
.SH AUTHOR
Erik M. van der Poel, Software Research Associates, Inc., Tokyo, Japan
