.TH XcuLabel 3X "\fBCornell University Widget Set\fR"
.ad b
.de}F    
.ds)H Program of Computer Graphics
.ev1
.}E
.if\\n()s 'sp |\\n(.pu-1v-1p
.if\\n()t 'sp |\\n(.pu-3v
.ifn 'sp |\\n(.pu-4v
.tl\\*()H- % -\\*(]W
'bp
.ev
..
.SH NAME
XcuLabel \- Basic Labels
.SH CLASS HIERARCHY
\ 
.br
Core / XcuSimple / XcuLabel
.SH NEW RESOURCES
\ 
.br
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c s s s.
XcuLabel Resources
.T&
lB lB lB lB.
Name;Type;Default;Description
_
.T&
lB l l l.
XtNbitmap;Pixmap;None;Pixmap to display instead of text
XtNbiggestLabel;String;NULL;largest text to be displayed
XtNfont;String;"Fixed";font for the label
XtNforeground;Pixel;"Black";text color
XtNgravity;XcuGravity;XcuCENTER_GRAVITY;gravity of label in oversized widgets
XtNinternalHeight;Dimension;2;vt distance between border and label
XtNinternalWidth;Dimension;2;hz distance between border and label
XtNjustify;XcuJustify;XcuJUSTIFY_CENTER;label justification
XtNlabel;String;widget's core name;text to be displayed
XtNlineFactor;Float;1.0;multiples of font heights between lines
XtNpreserveText;Boolean;False;attempt to preserve text when widget is too small
.TE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\ 
.br
The \fBXcuLabel\fR widget handles the basic label display operations.
It can display multiple lines of text with left, center, or right justification,
and it has self-defined gravity covering each of the eight compass directions
and center.
Multiple lines are created merely by embedding newline characters within
the label.
.SH COMPARISON WITH THE XAW LABEL WIDGET
\ 
.br
Although \fBXcuLabel\fR was originally derived from Xaw \fBLabel\fR, it
has been significantly restructured.
The following are the major externally visible differences:
.in +3
.sp
\fBXcuLabel\fR allows text with embedded newlines, producing multi-line labels.
These lines can be left, center, or right justified.
.sp
To prevent annoying resizes, there is a "biggestLabel" resource which permits
the label to be initially sized large enough to hold the largest expected label.
\fBXcuLabel\fR will not request to be made smaller than this size.
.sp
\fBXcuLabel\fR has a gravity resource.
.sp
It is a subclass of \fBXcuSimple\fR.
.in -3
.ne4
.SH SEE ALSO
\ 
.br
XcuSimple(3X), XcuJustifyR(3X), XcuGravityR(3X)
.ne 4
.SH AUTHOR
\ 
.br
Gene Dykes, \fIgwd@freedom.graphics.cornell.edu\fR
.br
Program of Computer Graphics, Cornell University

