.TH XcuSimple 3X "\fBCornell University Widget Set\fR"
.ad b
.de}F    
.ds)H Program of Computer Graphics
.ev1
.}E
.if\\n()s 'sp |\\n(.pu-1v-1p
.if\\n()t 'sp |\\n(.pu-3v
.ifn 'sp |\\n(.pu-4v
.tl\\*()H- % -\\*(]W
'bp
.ev
..
.SH NAME
XcuSimple, XcuSimpleComp, XcuSimpleCompConst \- Common Features
.SH CLASS HIERARCHY
\ 
.br
Core / XcuSimple
.br
Core / Composite / XcuSimpleComp
.br
Core / Composite / Constraint / XcuSimpleCompConst
.SH NEW RESOURCES
\ 
.br
.TS
allbox tab(;);
c s s s.
XcuSimple Resources
.T&
lB lB lB lB.
Name;Type;Default;Description
_
.T&
lB l l l.
XtNcursor;Cursor;None;Cursor to display when sensitive
XtNcursorBackground;Pixel;None;Background color of cursor
XtNcursorForeground;Pixel;None;Foreground color of cursor
XtNinsensitiveBorder;Pixmap;None;Border when insensitive
XtNhighlightWidth;Dimension;2;Width of highlight frame
XtNhighlightColor;Pixel;"White";Highlight color when sensitive
XtNfacetWidth;Dimension;5,0,0;Width of a picture frame facet
XtNdimFacetColor;Pixel;"Black";Shaded facets of picture frame
XtNbrightFacetColor;Pixel;"White";Bright facets of picture frame
XtNshadow;Boolean;False;Put shadows behind widgets instead of frames
.TE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\ 
.br
Although \fBXcuSimple\fR was originally derived from Xaw \fBSimple\fR, it
has been significantly restructured.
The \fBXcuSimple\fR widget implements many features commonly used
by many widgets.  These features concern cursor sensitivity and
frames for 3D appearance.
XcuSimpleComp and XcuSimpleCompConst allow composite and constrained composite
widgets, respectively, to also be surrounded by 3D features, but the cursor
sensitive features have no effects.
.sp
.ce
.ne 4
PICTURE FRAMES
.sp
By default, \fBXcuSimple\fR derived widgets are surrounded by a picture frame
consisting of facets of width 5.  The left and top facets are colored
differently so that it appears that there is a light source shining down
from the upper left (if the brightFacetColor is properly chosen to be
brighter than dimFacetColor).  The effect is quite pleasing when "good"
colors are available.
.sp
.ce
.ne 5
SHADOWS
.sp
For systems with black and white or primary colors only, shadows provide
a much better appearance of 3D relief.  Shadows use the dimFacetColor resource
and the facetWidth resource to determine the color and offset of the shadow.
The shadow takes on the highlightColor when highlighting is active.
.sp
.ce
.ne 5
CURSOR SENSITIVITY
.sp
Resources are available to set cursor type and colors,
highlight width and colors, and
borders in response to sensitivity and presence of a cursor in the widget.
.in -3
.ne 4
.SH AUTHOR
\ 
.br
Gene Dykes, \fIgwd@freedom.graphics.cornell.edu\fR
.br
Program of Computer Graphics, Cornell University

