.\" @(#)worm.man 1.1 88/08/16; Copyright (c) 1988 - Sun Microsystems
.TH worm 1 "15 Aug 1988"
.SH NAME
worm \- draw wiggly worms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B worm
[
.BI \-l " length"
]
[
.BI \-s " size"
]
[
.BI \-n " number"
]
[
.BI \-d " connection"
]
[
.BI \-g " geometry"
]
[
.BI \-R
]
[
.BI \-C
]
[
.BI \-S
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I worm
draws wiggly worms.  It is adapted from a concept in the December 1987
issue of Scientific American.
Playing with the various parameters can create strange effects.
Pressing any key in the worm window will cause them to freeze;
pressing again will thaw.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.BI \-S
Screensaver.  Takes over entire screen.
.TP 5
.BI \-C
Chromocolor.  Worms change colors as they crawl.
.TP 5
.BI \-R
Rotate colormap.  The colormap constantly changes.
.TP 5
.BI \-n " number"
Make
.IR number
worms.  Default is 50.
.TP 5
.BI \-l " length"
Worms are if length
.IR length.
A negative value means infinite length.
.TP 5
.BI \-size " size"
Worms are
.IR size
pixels wide.
.TP 5
.BI \-display " connection"
Connect to X server display,
.IR connection.
.TP 5
.BI \-geometry " geomspec"
Create window using
.IR geomspec.
.SH SEE ALSO
    X(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
 Copyright (c) 1988 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
 David Lemke (lemke@wirehead.sun.com)

 Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 
