.TH Xlife 6 
.SH NAME
Xlife - Conway's Game of Life, for X
.SH SYNTAX
.B xlife [intial pattern file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.NXR "xlife"
.PN xlife
brings up a single window in which the user may play the game of life.

The universe is effectivly unbounded (4.2 billion on a side)
The algorithim uses hashed 8x8 boxes of cells, and computes the next 
generation by using lookup tables for added speed.

.SH COMMANDS
.IP \fB8\fR 20 
Move your view of the universe up.
.IP \fB2\fR 20 
Move your view of the universe down.
.IP \fB6\fR 20
Move your view of the universe right.
.IP \fB4\fR 20
Move your view of the universe left.
.IP \fB5\fR 20
Center the universe on the screen (based on average position of the cells).
.IP \fB=,+\fR 20
Zoom the view in.
.IP \fB\-\fR 20
Zoom the view out.
.IP \fBg\fR 20
Toggle running the game.
.IP \fBo\fR 20
Step forward one generation.
.IP \fBs\fR 20
Save the universe to a file adding extention .life.
.IP \fBl\fR 20
Load (actually add to) the universe from a file with extention .life.
This lets you overlay multiple saved states to make for some interesting
effects. Clear the universe if you want to start from scratch.
.IP \fBh\fR 20
(Hide) stop displaying after each generation, does not iconify.
.IP \fB?\fR 20
Help for xlife.
.IP \fB!\fR 20
Place random cells on the area of the universe on the screen.
.IP \fBr\fR 20
Redraw the screen.
.IP \fBR\fR 20
Change the rules in "stays alive on"/"born on"
format. The standard rules are 23/3 (alive on two or three
neighbors, birth on three neighbors for an empty cell).
.IP \fBC\fR 20
Clear the universe.
.IP \fBQ\fR 20
Quit
.IP \fBButtons\fR 20
.IP \fB1\fR 20
Activate a cell at the cursor.
.IP \fB2\fR 20 
Center the universe view on the cursor.
.IP \fB3\fR 20 
Delete a cell at the cursor.

.SH RESTRICTIONS
none

.SH AUTHORS
Algorithim, and implementation

Jon Bennett jcrb@cs.cmu.edu

Original X code

Chuck Silvers cs4n@andrew.cmu.edu

.SH SEE ALSO   
xtrek(6)
