.TH ARCSTONES 1 "July 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
arcstones -- tests the performance of arcs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "arcstones"
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIArcstones\fP tests the performance of the XDrawArcs()
and XFillArcs(). For simple arc drawing, the test can be varied according
to the number of arcs, shape of the ellipse, width of the arcs,
and pattern that the arc is drawn in.  In addition, for filled arcs, the
test can be varied according to arc mode, PieSlice or Chord, and fill
style.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-narcs \fInum\fP
This option specifies the number of arcs to draw per call to
XDrawArcs.  The default value is 190.
.TP 8
.B \-maxarcs
This option specifies the use of the maximum number of arcs on
each call to XDrawArcs.  This value is 5460.
.TP 8
.B \-x \fInum\fP
This option specifies the left extent of the ellipse.  The default value
is 2.
.TP 8 
.B \-y \fInum\fP
This option specifies the top extent of the ellipse.  The default value
is 2.
.TP 8
.B \-dx \fInum\fP
This option specifies the change of the left extent of the ellipse.
The default value is 2.
.TP 8
.B \-dy \fInum\fP
This option specifies the change of the top extent of the ellipse.
The default value is 2.
.TP 8
.B \-ellipse
This option specifies the use of the XDrawArcs library function.
This is the default value.
.TP 8
.B \-chord
This option specifies the use of the XFillArcs library function with
the mode set to ArcChord.  The default value is XDrawArcs().
.TP 8
.B \-pieslice
This option specifies the use of the XFillArcs library function with
the mode set to ArcPieSlice.  The default value is XDrawArcs().
.TP 8
.B \-rad1 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the diameter of the x-axis.  The default value
is 390.
\fBNOTE:\fP
The term
\fBrad\fP
is a misnomer.
.TP 8
.B \-rad2 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the diameter of the y-axis.  The default value
is 390.
\fBNOTE:\fP
The term
\fBrad\fP
is a misnomer.
.TP 8
.B \-drad1 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the change of the diameter of the x-axis.
The default value is 0.
\fBNOTE:\fP
The term
\fBrad\fP
is a misnomer.
.TP 8
.B \-drad2 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the change of the diameter of the y-axis.
The default value is 0.
\fBNOTE:\fP
The term
\fBrad\fP
is a misnomer.
.TP 8
.B \-ang1 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the starting angle.  The default value is 0.
.TP 8
.B \-ang2 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the ending angle.  The default value is 360.
.TP 8
.B \-dang1 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the change in the starting angle.  The default
value is 0.
.TP 8
.B \-dang2 \fInum\fP
This option specifies the change in the ending angle.  The default
value is 0.
.TP 8
.B \-wide \fInum\fP
This option specifies the width of the arc.  The default value is 0.
.TP 8
.B \-dash \fI(1) (2) (3) .... (N)\fP
This option specifies the use of patterned lines to draw the arcs.
The (1) option specifies the number of parameters.  The (2) option is
the number of pixels drawn on.  The (3) option is the number of pixels
drawn off.
.TP 8
.B \-tile
This option specifies the use of tile fill for chords and pieslices.
The bitmap used for the tile is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-stip
This option specifies the use of stipple fill for chords and pie slices.
The bitmap used for the stipple is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-opaqstip
This option specifies the use of opaque stipple file for chords and pie slices.
The bitmap used for the stipple is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-opaqstipbg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the background color to use for the
opaque stipple fill.
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option displays the help menu for the common options to all
stones programs.
.TP 8
.B \-h
This option displays the help menu for the arcstones specific program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
International Business Machines--1989
