.TH LINESTONES 1 "June 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
linestones -- tests the performance of line drawing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "linestones"
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fILinestones\fP tests the performance of the XDrawLine() library routine.
The default pattern is a polyline sweep.  Input files may be used to
specify an alternate pattern.
.PP
The following is a sample of input file data:
    100 140
    150 180
    160 200
.PP
In this sample the flags \fB-npts 2\fP and \fB-file sample\fP would be
used.  Two lines would be drawn.  One from position 100,140 to 150,180 and
one from position 150,180 to 160,200.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-npts \fInum\fP
This option specifies the number of points per cal to XDrawLines.
The default value is 3200.
.TP 8
.B \-maxpts
This option specifies the use of the maximum number of points.
This value is 8190.
.TP 8
.B \-wide \fInum\fP
This option specifies the width of the lines.  If "0" is specified,
the server will use a machine dependent algorithm for drawing the lines.
"0" is the default value.
.TP 8 
.B \-length \fInum\fP
This option specifies the length of each line segment.
The default value is 200.
.TP 8
.B \-dash \fI(1) (2) (3) ... (N)\fP
This option specifies the use of patterned lines.  The (1) specifies
the number of values.  The (2) specifies the number of pixels to
draw on.  The (3) specifies the number of pixels to draw off.
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfilename\fP
This option specifies the name of a file to use that contains input data..
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option displays the help menu.
.TP 8
.B \-h
This option displays the help menu.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
International Business Machines
