.TH EXHIBIT 1 "27 November 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
exhibit \- Exhibit an image collection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B exhibit
.I file
[
.B exhibit_options
]
[
.B standard_options
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B exhibit
displays a set of images.  It cycles through a list of image
names in either random or sequential order, leaving each image
on view for a given minimum time period.  Image placement on
the screen is random.  Normally
.B exhibit
covers the current screen image with a black background window;
optionally it can omit that window, or it can grab the mouse and
keyboard to lock the display.  When the display is locked, it can
be released by typing either the password for either the user who
invoked
.B exhibit
or the super-user's password.
.PP
For each image,
.B exhibit
may convert the image automatically to a different representation
to suit the screen's default visual.  This may involve converting
in either direction between RGB and color-mapped format, and
it may involve quantizing the image to force it to use only the
maximum number of colors available.  Similarly, it may convert
color to grayscale or monochrome (dithered black and white).
.PP
The
.I file
argument is the name of a file containing a list of image names.
Each line contains the name of one image file, using the same conventions
as are used by
.B dispimg.
.SH OPTIONS
At the time of release this program is in transition between two
forms of option setting, and looks for two types of options.
Those identified as
.B exhibit_options
are identified by their first character, and appear only on
the command line.  Those identified as
.B standard_options
are identified as either command line switches or X resources.
.PP
Until a future version finishes this transition, it would be
safest to use X resources to specify
.B standard_options.
For summary information on
.B exhibit_options
invoke the program with "exhibit \\?".
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Raveling, USC Information Sciences Institute
.SH CAVEAT EMPTOR
This is program is in its infancy:  Surprises
are possible.  Please report problems
and suggestions to Raveling@isi.edu; if that address doesn't work
try Raveling@venera.isi.edu.
