.\" $Header: /u/04c/mnt/integ/man/man1/RCS/format.1,v 1.3 89/08/04 11:41:47 trm Exp $
.\"
.\" UNIX manual page for Serpent format command.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" 
.\"  Distribution: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1989  by  Carnegie  Mellon  University, Pittsburgh, PA.  The
.\" Software Engineering  Institute  (SEI) is a federally  funded  research and
.\" development center established  and  operated by Carnegie Mellon University
.\" (CMU).  Sponsored  by  the  U.S.  Department  of   Defense  under  contract
.\" F19628-85-C-0003,  the  SEI  is  supported  by  the  services  and  defense
.\" agencies, with the U.S. Air Force as the executive contracting agent.
.\" 
.\"   Permission to use,  copy,  modify, or  distribute  this  software and its
.\" documentation for  any purpose and without fee  is hereby granted, provided
.\" that  the above copyright notice appear  in  all copies and that both  that
.\" copyright  notice  and   this  permission  notice  appear   in   supporting
.\" documentation.   Further,  the  names  Software  Engineering  Institute  or
.\" Carnegie  Mellon  University  may  not be used in  advertising or publicity
.\" pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written  prior
.\" permission.  CMU makes no claims  or representations  about the suitability
.\" of this software for any purpose.  This software is provided "as is" and no
.\" warranty,  express  or  implied,  is  made  by  the  SEI  or CMU, as to the
.\" accuracy  and  functioning of the program and related program material, nor
.\" shall   the  fact of  distribution   constitute  any   such  warranty.   No
.\" responsibility is assumed by the SEI or CMU in connection herewith.
.\" 
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH FORMAT 1 "15 August 1989"
.SH NAME
format \- format a recorded Serpent transaction log
.SH SYNOPSIS
format 
.I recfile 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Format
converts a binary Serpent transaction log to a formatted, easy-to-read
report.  The
.I recfile
argument specifies the transaction log to be converted.  The report is
written to standard output.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
serpent(1)
.sp
.I "SEI Serpent Slang Reference Manual (Draft Report)",
CMU/SEI-UG-89-5, Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University
(Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213), August 1989.
