.\" $Header: /u/04c/mnt/integ/man/man1/RCS/sdd.1,v 1.4 89/08/04 12:01:35 trm Exp $
.\"
.\" UNIX manual page for Serpent sdd command.
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" 
.\"  Distribution: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
.\" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1989  by  Carnegie  Mellon  University, Pittsburgh, PA.  The
.\" Software Engineering  Institute  (SEI) is a federally  funded  research and
.\" development center established  and  operated by Carnegie Mellon University
.\" (CMU).  Sponsored  by  the  U.S.  Department  of   Defense  under  contract
.\" F19628-85-C-0003,  the  SEI  is  supported  by  the  services  and  defense
.\" agencies, with the U.S. Air Force as the executive contracting agent.
.\" 
.\"   Permission to use,  copy,  modify, or  distribute  this  software and its
.\" documentation for  any purpose and without fee  is hereby granted, provided
.\" that  the above copyright notice appear  in  all copies and that both  that
.\" copyright  notice  and   this  permission  notice  appear   in   supporting
.\" documentation.   Further,  the  names  Software  Engineering  Institute  or
.\" Carnegie  Mellon  University  may  not be used in  advertising or publicity
.\" pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written  prior
.\" permission.  CMU makes no claims  or representations  about the suitability
.\" of this software for any purpose.  This software is provided "as is" and no
.\" warranty,  express  or  implied,  is  made  by  the  SEI  or CMU, as to the
.\" accuracy  and  functioning of the program and related program material, nor
.\" shall   the  fact of  distribution   constitute  any   such  warranty.   No
.\" responsibility is assumed by the SEI or CMU in connection herewith.
.\" 
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH SDD 1 "15 August 1989"
.SH NAME
sdd - Serpent SADDLE processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
sdd
.I file 
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-c
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Sdd
is the Serpent Shared Data Definition Language (SADDLE) processor.
.B Sdd
reads SADDLE shared data descriptions and produces a file containing
application-language shared data declarations and Serpent-readable shared
data declarations.
.PP
The
.I file
argument
specifies the name of the SADDLE file to be processed.  This file must have
a ``.sdd'' extension, although it can be specified with or without the
extension on the command line.  For example, file ``dm.sdd'' can be specified
as ``dm'' or ``dm.sdd'' on the
.B sdd
command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-a
Causes
.B sdd
to generate an Ada package containing shared data definitions for use in an
Ada application.  The package is written to \fIfile\fR.a, where \fIfile\fR
is the name of the SADDLE file without the ``.sdd'' extension.  For example,
using this option on file ``dm.sdd'' will produce file ``dm.a''.
.TP 15
.BI \-c
Causes
.B sdd
to generate C header (``.h'') file containing shared data definitions
for use in a C
application.  The package is written to \fIfile\fR.h, where \fIfile\fR
is the name of the SADDLE file without the ``.sdd'' extension.  For example,
using this option on file ``dm.sdd'' will produce file ``dm.h''.
.PP
If no options are specified,
.B \-c 
is assumed.
.PP
In addition to the application declarations, 
.B sdd
also produces a Serpent-readable declarations file, commonly called the
.I ill,
file, which is written to \fIfile\fR.ill, where \fIfile\fR
is the name of the SADDLE file without the ``.sdd'' extension.  For example,
The 
.I ill
file for ``dm.sdd'' is ``dm.ill''.  This file is used both by the Slang
compiler and the Serpent runtime system.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
\fIfile\fR.sdd
Input file.
.TP 15
\fIfile\fR.a
Output file containing Ada declarations.
.TP 15
\fIfile\fR.h
Output file containing C declarations.
.TP 15
\fIfile\fR.ill
Output file containing Serpent-readable declarations.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
serpent(1)
.sp
.I "SEI Serpent SADDLE Users Guide (Draft Report)",
CMU/SEI-UG-89-3, Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University
(Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213), January 1989.
