.TH DXFC 1 "26 October 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
dxfc - BDF to PCF font compiler for DECwindows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "dxfc"
[-p#] [-s#] [-m] [-l] [-M] [-L] [-w] [-W] [-t] [-i] [-o [pcf-file]] [bdf-file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dxfc
reads a Bitmap Distribution Format (BDF) font from the
specified file (or from standard input if no file is specified)
and writes an X11 portable compiled font (PCF) to standard output or
the specified output file.  Use
.B dxmkfontdir
to create the fonts.dir file in that directory.   
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-o[file]
Write output to the specified file.   If no file is specified, 
use the name of the input file (or 'stdin' if no input file is specified).
The file extension is '.bdf' truncated (if present) and '.pcf' appended.
.B \-p#
Force the glyph padding to a specific number.  The legal
values are 1, 2, 4, and 8.
.B \-s#
Force the scanline unit padding to a specific number.  The legal
values are 1, 2, and 4.
.TP 8
.B \-m
Force the bit order to most significant bit first.
.TP 8
.B \-l
Force the bit order to least significant bit first.
.TP 8
.B \-M
Force the byte order to most significant bit first.
.TP 8
.B \-L
Force the byte order to least significant bit first.
.TP 8
.B \-w
Print warnings if the character bitmaps have bits set to
one outside of their defined widths.
.TP 8
.B \-W
Print warnings for characters with an encoding of -1; the default is
to silently ignore such characters.
.TP 8
.B \-t
Expand glyphs in "terminal-emulator" fonts to fill the bounding box.
.TP 8
.B \-i
Don't compute correct ink metrics for "terminal-emulator" fonts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), Xserver(1), dxmkfontdir(1)
.br
"Bitmap Distribution Format 2.1"
