.TH RECTSTONES 1 "June 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
rectstones - tests the performance of drawing and filling rectangles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rectstones"
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Rectstones uses XDrawRectangles or XFillRectangles.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-nrects \fInum\fP
This option specifies the number of rectangles per call.  The
default value is 190.
.TP 8
.B \-maxrects \fInum\fP
This option specifies the use of the maximum number of rectangles.
This value is 8190.
.TP 8
.B \-x \fInum\fP
This option specifies the x coordinate of the upper left hand corner
of the first rectangle relative to the parent window.  The default value
is 300.
.TP 8 
.B \-y \fInum\fP
This option specifies the y coordinate of the upper left hand corner
of the first rectangle relative to the parent window.  The default value
is 200.
.TP 8
.B \-dx \fInum\fP
This option specifies the vertical space between the rectangles. The
default is -1.
.TP 8
.B \-dy \fInum\fP
This option specifies the horizontal space between the rectangles. The
default is -1.
.TP 8
.B \-wd \fInum\fP
This option specifies the width of the rectangle in pixels.  The default
value is 1.
.TP 8
.B \-ht \fInum\fP
This option specifies the height of the rectangle in pixels.  The default
value is 1.
.TP 8
.B \-dwd \fInum\fP
This option indicates the change in the width of the rectangles.
The default value is 2.
.TP 8
.B \-dht \fInum\fP
This option indicates the change in the height of the rectangles.
The default value is 2.
.TP 8
.B \-solid
This option indicates that rectangles should be filled with a solid fill
by the XFillRectangles() library routine. Solid is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-tile
This option specifies the use of tile fill for chords and pieslices.
The bitmap used for the tile is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-stip
This option specifies the use of stipple fill for chords and pie slices.
The bitmap used for the stipple is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-opaqstip
This option specifies the use of opaque stipple file for chords and pie slices.
The bitmap used for the stipple is hard coded in the source directory as
\fBbitmap.h\fP
.TP 8
.B \-opaqstipbg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the background color to use for the
opaque stipple fill.
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option displays the help menu.
.TP 8
.B \-h
This option displays the help menu.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
International Business Machines--1989
